## Be Effective

> [effective][effective-oxford] - producing the result that is wanted or intended; producing a successful result

[effective-oxford]: https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/effective

Being effective is split up in two parts; producing results and communication
about what our goals are.

### Results

We value results over measuring hours spent working. We do not dictate how
someone should schedule their day - we trust individuals to do what is right.
Everyone should feel empowered to do the work needed to achieve our goals.

There may be times when more is needed to meet a goal, deadline or customer
situation. We take the responsibility to ensure they are the exceptions rather
than the rule.

#### Bias for action

We value getting things done and continually moving forward. It is better to 
iterate rapidly rather than get stuck over-thinking a problem. We move with an
urgency and a focus to achieve our best.

When you disagree with a solution to a problem, provide a concrete alternate
solution to allow momentum to be maintained or even gained.

#### Be trusting

To move with high velocity, trust needs to be given before one has had the
opportunity to earn it. People can only grow when they're able to take up
challenging tasks and project, and are then allowed to go their own route. When
challenged, ask for feedback and support, not for permission or approval.

### Communication

### Be a community

As an open core company our community spans our employees, the open source
contributors and our users. We strive to build a healthy, positive community
through our values and actions. We celebrate the diversity of others, we listen
to each other, we support each other.

We are inclusive of all and are mindful of how our words and actions can impact
others. We welcome discussion and debate, but take care to ensure it is not at
the expense or exclusion of others. We value empathy, courtesy and respect for
each other.

### Use candor

We use truth as a superpower, even when inconvenient to ourselves. We use it
with care and consideration of others. We won’t get everything right all of the
time. The only way we can improve is by being honest with ourselves and each
other. It can be difficult to achieve and it can feel awkward. When done right, 
with respect and a shared understanding, it can lead to a better outcome for
everyone.

We strongly encourage the sharing of thanks and feedback within FlowForge. This
can be done formally through our `@Feedback` Slackbot.

### Be optimistic

We will treat all situations with an optimism that a positive result is
possible. We don’t let that get in the way of planning for all outcomes and
making the hard choices when they are needed.
